Java Strings: `.lastIndexOf()` (#1652)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/strings/terms/lastIndexOf/lastIndexOf.md

---
Title: '.lastIndexOf()' 
Description: 'Searches a string for a specified value, and returns the position of the match.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'String'
  - 'Method'
  - 'Characters'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-Java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.lastIndexOf()`** method is a method that searches a string for a specified value, and returns the position of the match. It searches the string from the end to the beginning, and returns the index within the string of the last occurrence of the specified value, or -1 if the value is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.lastIndexOf()`** method searches a string for a specified value and returns the position of the match. It searches the string, from the end to the beginning, and returns the index of the specified value. In other words, it returns the index of the last occurrence of the specified value. Otherwise if the value is not found, it returns -1.

```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> lastIndexOf(String searchValue, int fromIndex)

Reviewer: Let's include the string that the method is called on here. See this example: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings/codePointBefore

```

> - `searchValue`: the character or sequence of characters to search for. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `searchValue`: The character or sequence of characters to search for. 

```

Reviewer: I recommend stating the types in the unordered list here!

> - `fromIndex`: the index at which to start searching backwards in the string (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fromIndex` (optional): The index at which to start searching backwards in the string.

```

## Example

> This example below searches the string `sentence` for the value `the` and returns the index of the last occurrence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example below searches the string `sentence` for the value `'the'` and returns the index of the last occurrence:

```

```java
let str = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog';
let lastPos = str.lastIndexOf('the');
console.log(lastPos); // 31
```
This will output the following:

> ```shell

Reviewer: Make sure to add spacing here like how you did up above in the syntax section. In addition, we won't need a comment for the output since we have it separately written underneath our code block.
